# Image Steganography using LSB (Least Significant Bit) technique
* Steganography is the art of hiding the fact that communication is taking place, by hiding information in other information. Many different carrier file formats can be used, but digital images are the most popular because of their frequency on the internet. For hiding secret information in images, there exists a large variety of steganography techniques some are more complex than others and all of them have respective strong and weak points.
* Different applications may require absolute invisibility of secret information, while others require a large secret message to be hidden. The primary idea behind developing this project is to protect confidential data from an intruder’s counter- attacks and to block the intruder through various levels in his/her attacks.
* A new tool has been developed with a combination of cryptographic encryption and steganographic encryption for its implementation. The developed steganographic tool has a sender’s segment that can take a message, a password and a cover image as input and give a stego-image as output that has message embedded in it. On the other hand, it also has a receiver’s segment where the receiver inputs the stego-image, and the same password is used by the sender as input to get the sender’s message as output.
* The project is tested with various inputs and made sure that the generated stego-image has no noise are data loss. For this model we used the LSB (Least Significant Bit) method.
* This technique works by replacing some of the information in each pixel with information from the data in the image. While it is possible to embed data into an image on any bit-plane, LSB embedding is performed on the least significant bit(s).
* This minimizes the variation in colors that the embedding creates. Thus, the output image has a very slight difference to the input image which is mostly not recognizable. 
